


A Fine Day for Kangarooing
The Vampire Cabbie




The Vampire Cabbie

by MURAKAMI Haruki
Translated by Kiki




Sometimes bad things and bad luck pile up. But that is just a generalization. However, if bad things keep happening to the same person, if they keep piling up, then that isn¡¯t a generalization anymore.It has become personal. In that case thinking in terms of a generalization doesn¡¯t help because one wants sympathy. Consider all of these things that happened to me today: I missed the woman I was waiting for. I lost a button on my jacket. I met somebody on the train that I didn¡¯t want to meet.I felt the first twinge of a toothache. And now it¡¯s raining and I¡¯m trapped in a cab, stuck in traffic because of an accident. If anybody says these are just general things then I¡¯ll going to belt him. Don¡¯t you agree?

So that is why getting along with others is so difficult. Sometimes I imagine life as a welcome mat, spending all my time just lying at the door in the entranceway. But probably in the doormat world one can generalize too. Doormats have their own problems too, I suppose, their own ups and downs.What are we to do? Maybe it doesn¡¯t really matter.

Anyway I was riding in a taxi, feeling trapped and stuck. A fall rain was beating on the roof of the cab. I could hear the periodic click of the meter. The pounding of the rain on the roof of the cab pierced my brain like a machine gun.

Complicating matters was that I just quit smoking three days ago. I tried to pass the time but nothing came to mind. So I started to ponder the proper sequence for undressing a woman: First the glasses, and then the wristwatch. Next the bracelet with its soft metallic sound. After that. ..

¡°Excuse me,¡± asked the taxi driver, diverting my attention from the first button of the blouse. ¡°Do you think that vampires really exist?¡±

¡°Vampires¡±? I repeated, dumbfounded.I glanced at the driver in the rearview mirror. He looked back at me in the rearview mirror.

¡°By vampires you mean creatures that suck blood . . .¡°

¡°Yeah.Do you think that they exist?¡±

¡°Not vampires in the movies or flying bats, but the real thing?¡±

¡°Of course, of course,¡± he answered. The cab crept forward a couple of feet.

¡°I don¡¯t know.¡±I told him. ¡°I have no idea.¡±

¡°That¡¯s not an answer. Do you believe or don¡¯t you? Just give me an answer.¡±

¡°I don¡¯t believe in vampires.¡±

¡°So you don¡¯t believe that vampires exist, right?¡±

¡°I don¡¯t believe in vampires.¡± I reached into my pocket and pulled out a cigarette and popped it into my mouth.I left it unlit.

-¡°What about ghosts?Do you believe in ghosts?¡±

¡°I have a feeling that ghosts exist.¡±

¡°I didn¡¯t ask about your feeling, I asked whether you think they exist. Just give me a yes or a no.¡±

¡°Yes,¡± I blurted out, ¡°I believe in ghosts.¡±

¡°However you don¡¯t believe in vampires.¡±

¡°No, I don¡¯t.¡±

¡°Well, what in the world is the difference between ghosts and vampires?¡±

¡°Ghosts are the antithesis of the physical world,¡± I mumbled. That¡¯s just nonsense I thought to myself.But spouting such nonsense is one of my strengths.

¡°Hmm.¡±

¡°But vampires, they are a corruption of our physical existence. They change what it means to be physical.¡±

¡°Ok, if I accept that ghosts are the antithesis of the world, then how can I buy your notion that vampires corrupt that same existence? I can buy your antithetical argument, but I¡¯m not sure about the corruption part.¡±

¡°Hmm, that¡¯s a good question. And after all it does open up an endless can of worms.¡±¡¡¡¡

The cab driver smiled at me. ¡°You¡¯re pretty smart, you know that.¡±

¡°I don¡¯t know about that.I graduated from college seven years ago.¡± The driver continued to inch the cab forward into traffic. He put a thin cigarette into his mouth and lit it, looking at the cars in front of us. A hint of mint floated through the cab.

¡°But if vampires really exist, then what?¡±

¡°That would be something to worry about, wouldn¡¯t it?¡±

¡°Do you think that¡¯s enough?¡±

¡°No, probably not.¡±

¡°You¡¯re right. Yet consider faith. It¡¯s really sublime. It can move mountains, you know. If you believe in a mountain it exists. If you don¡¯t, then it doesn¡¯t.¡±

For some reason that reminded me of an old Donovan song.

¡°Is that right?¡±

¡°That¡¯s right.¡±

I took a deep sigh. The unlit cigarette remained in my mouth. ¡°Say, do you believe in vampires?¡±

¡°Yes, I do.¡±

¡°Why?¡±

¡°Why? I just do.¡±

¡°Can you prove it?¡±

¡°There¡¯s no connection between faith and evidence.¡±

¡°If you say so.¡±I returned to the buttons on the woman¡¯s blouse:one, two, three¡­.

¡°But I can prove it,¡± the cabbie said.

¡°Really?¡±

¡°Really.¡±

¡°How?¡±

¡°Because I¡¯m a vampire.¡±

We were quiet for a while. The cab barely moved more than fifteen feet. The rain continued to beat on the roof. The meter showed more than 1500 yen.

¡°Say, could I borrow your lighter?¡±

¡°Sure, no problem.¡±

I lit my cigarette with his white bic and fed my lungs with nicotine for the first time in three days.

¡°We¡¯ve really been stuck here for a long time, haven¡¯t we?¡±

¡°That¡¯s for sure,¡± I answered.¡°Speaking of vampires¡­¡±

¡°Yeah.¡±

¡°Are you really a vampire?¡±

¡°Yes I am. That¡¯s not something I¡¯d lie about, is it?¡±

¡°I guess not. How long have you been a vampire?¡±

¡°More than ten years now. Back to about the time of the Munich Olympics, I think.¡±

¡° I remember them.Mark Spitz and Olga Korbut. And weren¡¯t some Israelis killed?¡±

¡°Yeah, I think so.

¡°Do you mind if I ask another question?¡±

¡°Fire away.¡±

¡°Why are you driving a cab?¡±

¡°Well I don¡¯t want to be just another stereotyped vampire who wears a cape and rides in a carriage, or one of those vampires living in a castle. That¡¯s bullshit.I¡¯m just like you. We aren¡¯t really all that different. I pay taxes. My hanko-stamp is registered with the city just like yours. I go to discos and play pachinko. Do you think that¡¯s strange?¡±

¡°No, not really.But we aren¡¯t really the same, are we?¡±

¡°What¡¯s the matter, don¡¯t you believe me?¡±

¡°Of course I believe you,¡± I said quickly. ¡°If you believe in a mountain then it exists.¡±

¡°Ok then.¡±

¡°So sometimes you drink blood.¡±

¡°Of course, I¡¯m a vampire after all.¡±

¡°Say, does some blood taste better than others?¡±

¡°Yes, of course.For example, your blood is no good because you smoke too much.¡±

¡°But I did quit for a little while, but I suppose that doesn¡¯t really matter.¡±

¡°Speaking of drinking blood, I have to admit that I prefer the blood of women.I really do.¡±¡¡

¡°That makes sense.By the way, which actresses do you think have delicious blood?¡±

¡°Well, I¡¯d love to sink my teeth into Kayoko Kishimoto. And Kimie Shingyoji¡¯s blood looks really delicious too. But I don¡¯t have any interest in Kaori Momoi. She¡¯s too independent for me.¡±

¡°It¡¯s good to drink blood?¡±

¡°Yeah, for me.¡±




We separated about fifteen minutes later. I entered my apartment, turned on the light and grabbed a beer from the refrigerator. After that I called the woman that I had missed earlier in the afternoon. I was calling simply because we had missed each other earlier in the day.

¡°Say, for the time being, it might be a good idea not to ride in any black-lacquered cabs with downtown plates. Ok?¡±

¡°Why not?¡±

¡°Because the cabbie is a vampire.¡±

¡°Really?¡±

¡°Really.¡±

¡°Should I be worried?¡±

¡°Of course.¡±

¡°So I shouldn¡¯t take any black-lacquered cabs with downtown plates, right?¡±

¡°Yeah.¡±

¡°Thank you.¡±

¡°You¡¯re welcome.¡±

¡°Good night.¡±

¡°You too.¡±

¡¡
